Matthew Ito Professor Moore ICS 314 February 11, 2021 Why do we care how
our code looks? Ever since I started learning and practicing programming
in a classroom setting, coding standards were enforced with an iron
first by the teachers. At first I would think, “this is ridiculous! Why
would anyone care how my code looks as long as it does its job?”. I
would neglect any of the advice from my teachers to adopt a uniform
coding style and proceeded to type out lines and lines of ugly and hard
to understand code. This, however, was not in my best interest as I soon
found myself stuck on a particular chunk of code that threw dozens of
errors whenever I tried to run it. When I had my teacher come look at
it, she was unable to even make out what I was trying to do, since my
program did not follow a coding standard. I eventually had to start over
from scratch and implement the coding standard that the teacher had been
promoting for months prior. As we can see from my unfortunate high
school experience, coding standards are meant to ease the pain of
looking at someone else’s code. Furthermore, in college, I found it
helpful to follow my professor’s coding standards since it involved an
organized and structured style that would help myself be able to
understand what i was writing, which was helpful especially when
learning a new language. When learning a new language, whether in
programming or even a spoken world language, it is hard to fight the
urge to just spew out words you know in an unorganized manner. It is
important, though, to take your time and follow the rules in structure,
so that you may be able to understand what exactly you are saying and
communicating with your audience, whether it may be a native speaker of
a foreign language, or a computer. Therefore, I tell all my fellow
coding standard strugglers to embrace the pain and understand that the
coding standard is here to be your friend and to aid us in our journey
to be better programmers.
