Matthew Ito Professor Moore ICS 314 February 25, 2021 Semantic UI makes
coding easy! Or does it? It wouldnâ€™t be inaccurate to assume that many
teenagers or young adults nowadays are using websites to start their
businesses or using Snapchat as a social media source to stay in touch
with friends and family. However, many people do not know that UI
frameworks such as Semantic UI are being used to develop previously said
websites and apps. Semantic UI is a somewhat popular development
framework designed to help create more aesthetically pleasing layouts
for front-end programming. Now, what makes Semantic UI a good resource
for software developers? First, Semantic UI is arguably very easy to
learn. Although from my own experience it could take some time to be
proficient in looking up what UI classes to use, it is well worth the
time learning instead of always having to create your own classes. Even
on one's first day of learning Semantic, they could create a beautiful
but basic website. Next, Semantic UI has many different components which
allows your project to have many different special moving parts. This is
good for both those new to Semantic and experienced users, as they have
a lot of leeway when it comes to features on their website/application.
These Semantic UI features make it not only good for people to get into
and learn, but also for those experienced with front-end development. So
what advantages does this have over just raw HTML and CSS? Well, in my
opinion, it is simply just easy to pick up and learn. Semantic UI is
good to just get started on a project and make a pleasing design just
from what they give you. HTML and CSS, however, will give you more
freedom in terms of what you can do, since Semantic UI only has a
certain amount of possibilities. Overall, whether you choose to use
Semantic over raw HTML is up to you, but frameworks are definitely a
popular option when it comes to front-end development.
